# Whats Up Phililppines? Topic Modelling on Reddit Philippines

Reddit is a social media forum with an emphasis on communities called subreddits. Worldwide, there are over 52 million daily active users on the site. In the Philippines, there are over 73 million (67% of the population) Filipinos with access to the internet so there should be no surprise that there are Filipino Reddit users who reside in their own subreddit community: r/Philippines. The subreddit was created on July 4, 2008 and at the time of writing, has over 614 thousand members, produces over 4733 comments a day, and 129 posts a day. This report aims to find out what are the frequent topics in reddit Philippines to find potential insights that could help grow the community.

With the available data scaped from reddit between the months January 2020 to April 2020, the group performed topic modeling with the use of Latent Semantic Analysis or LSA on the post titles from each month to find the themes and topics that are frequently discussed in the community. Prevalent text posts are very influenced by local news. January has particular SVs associated to Taal volcano eruption and the PCSO Lotto. February 2020 has particular SVs with weights pointing towards the coronavirus, the VFA (Visiting Forces Agreement), and other various news titles such as ABSCBN (possibly the franchise renewal). March has particular SVs with features referring to ecq, pogos, checkpoints, and psa (possibly referring to the PSA report on lost jobs due to COVID19). April has SVs with the features duterte, dds, and quarantine, patients, pandemic, doh (probably department of health), community (possibly community quarantine), and ecq. Every month we see SVs with features consisting of random, discussion, weekly that reflects the consistent random weekly discussion threads created by the moderators.

Implementing LSA to reddit Philippines leads to show the repetitive nature of reddit Philippines’ text posts. As a subreddit, it may not create much of a community but rather seems to serve as an aggregator for news. Moderators of the subreddit might want to encourage their communities to feature a wider variety of topics rather than repetitive posts if they want to entice more members to join their community.
